#summary Post release notes for PSOPT Release 1 - A Pseudospectral Optimal Control Solver in C++

= Post release notes for PSOPT Release 1 Build 2009-15-05 =

These notes have been produced after release 1 of PSOPT was published.


*1* There is an issue with the *Linux* Makefiles, which can be solved easily.
The simplest solution to this problem is to create a symbolic link in the home
directory to your home directory. Open a command window and enter the following
command  (which will require the administrator's password):
{{{
> sudo ln -s /home/USER /home/shs99vmb
}}}
where USER is the name of your home directory (usually your username).


*2* It seems that the CXSparse makefile was updated on 20 May 2009, which
causes an error when trying to build PSOPT under *Linux*. The solution is simple:

After performing step 11 in page 33 of the PSOPT user manual, please download
the following file:

http://www.cise.ufl.edu/research/sparse/UFconfig/current/UFconfig.tar.gz

Copy the file to the Psopt1 directory and extract it there as follows:
{{{
> tar zxvf UFconfig.tar.gz
}}}


*3* Again if you are compiling under *Linux* and do not have SNOPT, please do the following:

  * a) Extract the Psopt1.tgz archive.

  * b) Download the file [http://www.reading.ac.uk/~shs99vmb/files/use_ipopt_only.sh use_ipopt_only.sh] and use it to replace the file *./Psopt1/use_ipopt_only.sh* in the
directory where the PSOPT distribution was extracted.

  * c) Download the file [http://www.reading.ac.uk/~shs99vmb/files/Makefile.ipopt Makefile.ipopt] and use it to replace the file *./Psopt1/PSOPT/examples/Makefile.ipopt*
(note carefully the path).

  * d) Open a command window and cd to the top installation directory (Psopt1). Then run the script:
{{{
>  sh  ./use_ipopt_only.sh
}}}

  * e) Now enter the following command:
{{{
>  make all
}}}